---
title: "On Labs and Fabs: Alliances, Acquisitions, and Antitrust in the Frontier AI Industry"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-01-31-on-labs-and-fabs
excerpt: 'This report evaluates the AI supply chain's current state, focusing on vertical relations and strategic partnerships, to understand the implications of governance interventions like antitrust.'
date: 2024-01-31
venue: 'Preliminary Report'
paperurl: 'http://yourwebsite.com/files/onlabsandfabs.pdf'
citation: 'Aguirre, Tomás. (2024). "On Labs and Fabs: Alliances, Acquisitions, and Antitrust in the Frontier AI Industry." Preliminary Report.'
---
Abstract: As frontier AI models progress, policy proposals for safe AI development are gaining increasing attention from researchers and policymakers. This report evaluates the present landscape of integration within the AI supply chain, emphasizing vertical relations and strategic partnerships, with the goal of laying the groundwork to further understand the implications of various governance interventions, including antitrust. We investigate major players like AI labs and chip designers, measure horizontal integration using concentration measures such as the Herfindahl–Hirschman index, and study vertical relationships leading companies across the AI supply chain. We profile 25 leading companies and their 300 interrelationships. To further understand the strategic partnerships in the industry, we provide three brief case studies of strategic partnerships. We enumerate significant mergers and acquisitions worth over USD 100 million and note relevant antitrust litigations. We conclude by discussing what may be driving the vertical and strategic partnerships we observe and by posing open research questions on how to best understand the observed market dynamics and various governance interventions, such as licensing and safety audits.

[Download report here](http://yourwebsite.com/files/onlabsandfabs.pdf)

Recommended citation: Aguirre, Tomás. (2024). "On Labs and Fabs: Alliances, Acquisitions, and Antitrust in the Frontier AI Industry." Preliminary Report.
